amazing a souffle isn't as tricky as you
might imagine I'm going to show you some
really simple tips to make the most
beautiful towering cheese souffle and
I'm starting with a basic white sauce
mixture it's a little bit thicker than a
standard recipe just refer back to the
white source video on the website to
that I'm going to add some egg yolks and
I'm going to fold in some egg whites but
first off I've got a baking sheet in the
oven heating up in a hot oven about 200
degrees and I've got a ramekin
that I've buttered and lined with some
bread crumbs and that's going to stop
the cheese souffle from sticking to the
sides and give you the biggest rise
possible so first step now take a wooden
spoon just break up the basic sauce mix
and then stir in your egg yolks there's
no need to beat them beforehand it's
fine give them a good beat so they're
well incorporated and the base mixture
is just warm you don't it's too cold you
don't have to be too hot either okay so
now that's nice and even I'm gonna beat
in the cheese and this is just normal
strong cheddar and I'm gonna add some
seasoning as well so once the salt and
pepper is in give it another quick stir
and they're gonna move on to the egg
whites so I've got a really good clean
bowl without any grease in it that's
really important to get the most volume
out of your egg whites take your
electric hand beater and start whisking
and we're looking for white fluffy
clouds of egg white so I'm gonna whisk
for about 30 seconds or so
what I'm looking for is for the egg
whites to be light and fluffy but not
dry and I want them to hold a peak when
I move the whisks around in the bowl I'm
gonna give them a couple more seconds
and then we're done
we're there right so we're going to
start incorporating the whites into that
cheese-face mix and to do this we're
going to use a large metal spoon you get
rid of my wooden spoon okay take a good
spoonful I'm gonna speak this in this is
just slackening the mixture I'm beating
the air out of the egg whites at this
point it's gonna help us keep the Aryan
in a minute see that's quite nice and
soft and almost liquid now so engage egg
whites now and this is where you want to
cut and fold in the egg whites and be as
gentle as you can
conserving as much of the air in them as
possible and we're looking for an even
pale yellow mix without any white blobs
of egg white left behind just keep
turning the bowl lifting and cutting
your spoon through the mixture as gently
as you can brilliant I'm really happy
with that
it's evenly yellow it's still very light
and airy so get rid of your large spoon
now it's time to put the mixture into
your prepared ramekins and to do this
I'm going to use a smaller spoon so you
want to fill your ramekin almost to the
top not quite so relieved about
centimeters depth at the top
okay once you've filled it can take a
teaspoon on the tip of a knife and just
run it around the edge over the mixture
and this is helping to loosen the
mixture and stop it sticking when it's
in the oven and it should add your
souffles rise so now my souffle in the
oven is ready let's see what happened
lovely there we have beautifully light
and risen cheese souffle
you